---
title: "The Unique Journey of Wreck-It Ralph - Two Major Differences of His Journey"
date: 2019-05-04 09:00:00 +0900
published: true
category: essay
---

*[Wreck-It Ralph][ref-0]* is a 3D computer-animated movie produced by Walt Disney Studios. Rich Moore directed the film in 2012, who has also directed episodes of *The Simpsons*. The film tells the story of the retro video game villain, Ralph, who defies his role as a ‘bad guy’, and dreams of becoming a beloved hero. He travels between several games with several genres, such as a first-person shooting game, or a casual racing game, in order to fulfill his dream. During his adventuresome journey, he encounters tests and trials that almost bring havoc to the world he lives. However, he finally resolves the difficulties and the story results in a happy ending. The essential concept of the film that non-living things are granted self-consciousness and lead the storyline seems somewhat worn-out, because there have been movies with similar stories like *Toy Story*. *Wreck-It Ralph*, nevertheless, is still entertaining. This is because of the power of imagination that incarnates retro game characters into the 3D screen, and the protagonists with attractive features, such as Vanellope Von Schweetz. The film was nominated for ‘Best Animated Movie’ in the 2013 Academy Awards.

### **SPOILERS ARE INCLUDED HEREINAFTER**
<br/>
Superficially, the film seems to follow the formula of the Hero’s Journey nicely. The hero in the ordinary world is called to the adventure. Showing some reluctance, he passes the first threshold of the adventure with mentor’s help. He undergoes tests, meets friends, undergoes ordeals, and finally overcome his quest. He returns to the ordinary world with the valuable things he did not have before. [C. David Milles][ref-1] maintained that these process, usually ordered by 12 steps, can be definitely applied to the story of *Wreck-It Ralph*, and they have indeed arranged and adjusted this story to suit the Hero’s Journey theory. However, several things distinguish the story of *Wreck-It Ralph* from the classical theory. Starting with trivial differences, we can easily find that unlike other heroes, Ralph is basically a bad guy. At the beginning, he is not just depicted as a below-average character, but a bad character in his ordinary world. Not only that, but he also does not really meet a mentor who will train and guide him. In a sense, the bartender at Tappers and the soldier from the game Hero’s Duty serve as a kind of mentor because they give Ralph the way to the next step. They, however, do not provide continuous assistance. The only thing they do in Ralph’s journey is to advise Ralph the once.

However, these are the minor differences. These types of differences usually occur in many other hero films. I think there are two major differences that make the film’s story unique. The first major difference is that there is a moment when the role of main protagonist alters. The main antagonist, King Candy, does not reveal his evil presence acutely until the story comes to a climax. Furthermore, he actually has no hostility towards the main protagonist, Ralph. King Candy’s essential problem is Vanellope and the threat she makes to his status. At the middle of the story, he even helps Ralph recover his medal by cracking the game’s code. This is the point where the first major difference occurs. Ralph’s journey ends in regaining his medal, which is regarded as the acceptance of the ‘good guys’ in his ordinary world. After this, the focus of the story changes from Ralph to Vanellope. I think just few of us were able to recognize this change because we still observe the story in the viewpoint of Ralph after the focus changes. In Vanellope’s story, Ralph hands over the main position of the protagonist to her, and becomes her best supporter. Although he saves her world from the attack of Cy-bugs, it is Vanellope who finally returns to the ordinary world with the elixir.

The second major difference of this journey is that Ralph’s superficial goal is actually misguided. In the film, he does not want to be a bad guy anymore because he wants to be accepted by the good guys around him. In order to gain this acceptance, he seeks a medal. A medal serves as a superficial goal of his journey. He pursues it because he really believes that it brings him the acceptance that he wants. However, I think every viewer immediately can know that a medal is not going to change anyone’s mind. The pursuit of a medal leads the significant amount of the journey, but it is a wrong goal that yields Ralph nothing. What is the profound goal, then? Although the film seems to establish its structure through the Hero’s Journey, I think Ralph’s story is essentially a journey of self-discovery. That is, it is a journey of finding an answer of “Who am I?” Ralph’s main enemy is Ralph himself, who is bad and hated by good guys. Through the journey, however, he makes the best friend, and the neighbors of him finally acknowledge and appreciate him even though his role as a bad guy does not change in his game. In this sense, we can say that he also returns with the elixir – the best friend and appreciation by the good guys – at last.

In conclusion, the story of *Wreck-It Ralph* has some differences from the classical Hero’s Journey theory. For example, Ralph starts as a villain character at the very beginning, and he does not really meet a mentor during the journey. On top of these, two major differences make the film unique. Firstly, Ralph hands over the main position of the protagonist to Vanellope at the time when King Candy helps him recover the medal. Secondly, the superficial goal by which he seeks a medal is actually misguided and yields him nothing. Since these two differences are important but hidden, we need to see the whole story profoundly in order to comprehend the essence of the film.

```This essay was originally for the assignment of the class of Advanced English: Exploring Film in Summer 2016 at SNU.​```

[ref-0]: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1772341/
[ref-1]: http://cdavidmilles.blogspot.kr/2012/11/the-heros-journey-wreck-it-ralph.html
